# Musician

This Haskell program implements the both the role of the 'composer' and
'performer' in Musician, a two-player logical guessing game based on
[Mastermind](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mastermind_(board_game)).
More details about the game are in `Proj2.hs`.

The main functions are:

* `feedback`     : returns feedback for a target chord and a guessed chord
* `initialGuess` : gives the initial chord to guess and an initial game state
* `nextGuess`    : given the previous guess and state, return the
                   next guess and state.

The strategy used to choose the next guess is based on filtering out guesses
that are inconsistent with previous guesses, and then choosing the guess that
is expected to reduce the number of possibilities by the largest amount. The
game state is used to keep track of the remaining possible guesses.

This strategy, along with an close-to-optimal initial guess (A2 B1 C1, found
after brute-force checking), resulted in around 4.21 guesses to guess the
target, on average over the 1330 possible target chords.

## Running the program

1. Ensure [GHC](https://www.haskell.org/ghc/distribution_packages.html)
   is installed, e.g. via `sudo apt install haskell-platform`, or otherwise.
2. Run `ghci Test.hs` then call `main` from within the interpreter, or
3. Run `./build.sh` then run the `Test` binary (run `./clean.sh` to remove
   `.o` object and `.hi` interface files generated by the compiler).

An prompt should appear asking the user for a target chord. The program will
then try to guess it, employing the strategy detailed above.
